in 2089
archaeologists alizabeth shaw and
charlie holloway discover a star map in
scotland
that matches the other several
unconnected ancient cultures
they interpret this as an invitation
from humanity's forerunner the engineers
peter weyland the elderly ceo of
mainland corporation
funds an expedition aboard the
scientific vessel prometheus to follow
the map to the distant moon
lv223 the ship's crew travels in stasis
while the android david monitors their
voice
arriving in december 2093 the mission
director meredith speaker
informed them of their mission to find
the engineers
and not to make any contact without her
permission prometheus
lands on the baron mountain surface near
a large artificial structure
inside they find stone slanders and
statue of humanoid head
and the decapitated cops of large alien
thought to be an
engineer shaw recovers its head crew
member
will burn and fifer grow uncomfortable
with the discoveries and attempt to run
to the prometheus but but become
stranded in a structure where they get
lost the expedition is cut short when a
stone forces the crew to return to the
ship
david secretly takes a slender from the
structure
while the remaining slanders began
leaking a dark liquid
in sheep's lab ingenious dna is found to
match that of humans dna
david investigates the cylinder and the
liquid inside it he intentionally
taints a drink with the liquid and gives
it to the unsuspecting holloway who has
stated that he would do anything for the
answers
shortly after xiao and holloway have sex
inside the structure a snake-like
creature kills milburn
and sprays across the fluid that melts
the five fields helmet five field falls
face first into the bottle of dark
liquid when crew comes back to the
structure
they find mill burns is dead david
separately discovers a control room
containing a surviving
engineer in stasis and a large 3d
holographic star map highlighting
earth meanwhile holloway gets sick
rapidly he is rushed back to the
prometheus
but wicker refuses to let him aboard and
at his urging
he burns him with that with the
flamethrower
later a medical scan reveals that shaw
despite being previously infertile
is now in advanced pregnancy fearing the
worst
she uses an automated surgery table to
extract
a speed-like creature from her abdomen
shaw then discovers that
valent has been in status about the
prometheus he explains that
he wants to ask the engineers how to
prevent his dad from old age
a monstrous mutated fightfield returns
to the prometheus and
kills several crew members and gets
killed prometheus captain
janet speculates that the structure was
an engineer military base that
lost control of a virulent biological
weapon the dark liquid
he also determined that the structure
houses a spacecraft new land and a team
returned to the structure
accompanied by the shop david wakes up
the engineer from the status
and speaks to him in a totally new
european language
in an attempt to explain what villain
wants engineers
responds violently by decapitating
damage
and killing the weyland and his team
before reactivating the spacecraft
meanwhile shaw flees spacecraft and
warns
yannick that engineers planning to leave
the liquid on earth convincing him to
stop the spacecraft
yannick and the crew sacrificed them by
ramming the prometheus into the alien
craft ejecting a lifeboat in a process
while vickers flees in an escape pod to
save her life
engineers disabled spacecraft crashes
onto the ground
killing wickers char goes to the light
board and finds that
her alien offspring his life has grown
to the gigantic
size david's still active headphones
show that engineers is coming for her
the engineer forces open the lifeboard's
airlock and
attack star who releases her alien
offspring onto the engineer
that alien offspring thirsts onto
engineer's throat
and using shaw records david's remain
and with his health
launches and other engineers spacecraft
she in an attempt to understand why they
wanted to destroy humility and why they
created them in first place
in lifeboat and alien creatures burst
out of the engineer's chest
[Music]